---
title: "Data Science FAQs"
date: 2018-10-27
layout: post
mathjax: true
category: blog
comments: true
tag:
- Bayesian statistics
- multi-collinearity
- Kaggle
author: adam
description: A list of frequently-asked-questions in Data Science.
---

Below are some short questions that occur frequently during data science courses.

1. "I was wondering if you had any suggestions for next steps moving forward. I definitely enjoy doing this, but I don't know what the best path would be if I want to try to do this as a career. Any suggestions?"
> I'd say 'hit the books'. Get the classics under your belt (e.g. _Learning Python_, _Deep Learning_, _Elements of Statistical Learning_), then make sure you are up to speed on your math (lin alg, stats, probability), then go tackle another project. I also definitely recommend creating a blog- it's really a good way to organize all of your ideas, while showing off what you know.

2. "When are Bayesian models useful?"
>The best answer, regarding when to use a Bayesian approach, that I've come across is at the first link below. It would seem to boil down to the role of the prior distribution, and the advantages/disadvantages associated with it. In some cases, it's not ideal because it's subjective - if two different people come up with different priors, their predictions may be totally different. But it does allow you, in some cases, to rely on your beliefs about the world to make predictions.
>I highly recommend [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eDMGDhyDxuY) for further info.

3. "How do I avoid multi-collinearity?"
>Two tell-tale signs of multi-collinearity are:
>- coefficients exhibiting greater variation than expected
>- large correlations (often surprisingly so) between _pairs_ of predictor
variables. 
>
>We can tackle the issue, when it occurs, by using some of the following
methods:
>1. Measure Variance Inflation Factor (VIF)
>- As implied by the name, this quantifies the variance contributed by the individual features in our data set. The primary problem resulting from  using collinear variables is the inflation of standard error. So, by comparing how this changes following the addition of individual variables, we can target (potentially) collinear data.
>
>2. Correlation Matrix
>- This is a fun and easy solution to understanding the relationships between the variables present in your data. By exploring the pair-wise correlations between variables (often, through the use of a colormap) we can spot-check the correlations present in our data set with relative ease and efficiency.

4. "How do I choose a Kaggle competition to participate in?"
>The first thing I look at with kaggle competitions is the size/depth of the activity on the 'Kernels' and 'Discussion' tabs. That will give me an idea of how much information will be available to me as I struggle to improve my model. If a competition has a lot of activity in both, that's ideal. You can start looking there for ideas, but try not to simply copy someone else's approach.
>
>Also important to consider is whether a particular competition will rely on expensive hardware to perform on a competitive level. Typically, if there are no images or audio files, you should be fine. If there are, we can talk about solutions to for that, too.
>
>So, if the subject matter is something that you're excited about and it passes these two tests, then give it a shot!
